
DESIGN FOR POTIONS AND PYTHONS ALPHA

Contents:
SECTION 1 - reading this code project
SECTION 2 - Fundamental objects
SECTION 3 - Room objects and world implementation
SECTION 4 - Saving and loading game data
SECTION 5 - parsing and interpreting user input
SECTION 6 - weapons, armor and combat
SECTION 7 - spells and effects
SECTION 8 - food, crafting, and cooking
SECTION 9 - creature behavior and NPCs


SECTION 1 - reading this code project
code styleguide
description of each file in source code
definition of "command", "verb", "action", "object", "source", "P", "W" and other terms (like "d")

SECTION 2 - Fundamental Objects (Game, items, creatures, the player)
Game
items
creature stats and creatures
status conditions
the player

SECTION 3 - room objects and world implementation/design
room
passages and room exits (passages should not be contained in other objects, passage connections must not conflict with room exits)
world network design
object search methodology (and the object tree)

SECTION 4 - saving and loading and menu
menu functions
intro animation
background data parsing functions
world file, and saving methodology
world file, and parsing methodology
discuss attributes and writeAttributes

SECTION 5 - parsing and interpreting
input processing, parsing, interpreting, executing methodology
go function methodology
attack function methodology
equip function methodology (equipping doesnt remove it from your inventory), but carrying allows something to be equipped while not in your inv?
effects methodology
spell methodology

SECTION 6 - weapons, armor, equipment, and combat

SECTION 7 - spells and effects

SECTION 8 - food, crafting, and cooking

SECTION 9 - creature behavior and NPCs






NOTES ON THE CONVENTIONS AND FORMATTING USED IN THIS CODE PROJECT
-source files are named with capital letters to distinguish them from python modules

-tabs	are	used	for	indentation,	not	spaces

-the standard maximum line-width is 80 characters for this code, with few exceptions

-functions should not exceed 40 lines in length, including line breaks

-functions typically use camelCase for naming, see 3 exceptions below

-Action functions are named with single capitalized words. Action functions are functions in Parser.py that are called as a result of player commands, or methods which are called by a corresponding Parser.py action function. For instance, the Look() function, which may call a Look() method on an item. This is to distinguish these functions from certain python keywords and built-ins

-functions with names that are multiple abbreviated words are purely lowercase

-the Creature methods which return the ability score for a creature are denoted purely in capital letters, such as MXHP(), and ATCK()

-classes are named with capitalized first-letters

-typically, instances of objects are either denoted with capital letters, or with words. For example, an instance of the Item() class may either be I, item, or some other word depending on the use case.

-the global objects P, W, and G refer to the Player, World, and Game objects

-typically, capital S refers to a "source" item. That is, an item which contains another item, usually called I.

-strings are denoted with "", unless it is necessary to use a string that contains " in it, in which case, the entire function of relevance uses '' to denote strings

-strings which are concatenated with variables are formatted using f-string formatting, however the + operator is used when there are only two terms to concatenate. For example;
	f"There is no '{obj.name}' here"
	f"There is {listObjects()} in this room"
	"You take the " + item.name



GAMEPLAY MECHANIC GOALS:

-lore/easter eggs are conveyed to the player in engaging but mysterious ways
-players can get a well-formatted display and description of their stats
-enemies and player have a perception system
-save ability and checkpoints, where respawn occurs if players die
-npcs have dynamic communication options which interact with RP
-combat can happen in a dynamic way, which may not always end in a death
-tinkering can be done to create and adapt items magically
-global events can occur which persistently alter something about the world
-rooms are persistent globally
-spells can occur and affect the game in many unique ways
-fun cheat codes? (git, excelsior)



CORE CODE DESIGN:

some file contains base framework;
	player class, room class, item class
okay so some file contains all room objects in the world
another file contains all creatures objects in the world
another file contains all item objects in the world
main will probably contain the parser, player object and all action functions

a txt file contains the save, which includes:
	all player stats
	current room
	all rooms in the world and their contents/settings? <- hard part
	certain global event variables

in main
there are two major objects
	player
	game (containing currentroom, prevroom, and time)

player contains all player attributes and methods
currentroom contains a room object of the room the player is currently in
prevroom represents the last room object that was currentroom
time represents the number of player actions taken since the game's beginning



FRAMEWORK OF THE GAME
every room contains a set of string room names denoting its connected rooms
main() runs a parsing loop, that loops taking valid input
	when parser encounters a valid command, it runs, calls an action function, which may do various things.

	The move() action will check for valid commands, and triage which room to move to, if any possible given the command. This will take the correct room object stored in currentroom's set of room connections, initialize the new room, set previous room to current room and set current room equal to new room, then call current room's "enter" function, which will print the initial room description and take care of some initial things

	Most other valid actions either alter some feature of the room object, some item in the room, something about the player object, or do some of each.

	Additionally, certain commands do external things, like save the game, cancel last action, or print useful info for the player





HOW PARSING INPUT WORKS (EXAMPLE)
```
What will you do?
> I will attack the Green Snake, with my Iron Sword.
```

In the above example, the user provides the raw input:
	"I will attack the Green Snake, with my Iron Sword."

- input processing in processCmd():

First, the raw input is turned to lowercase:
	"i will attack the green snake, with my iron sword."
Then, the input is purified by removing extraneous symbols:
	"i will attack the green snake with my iron sword"
Then, the input is split by spaces into a list of words:
	["i","will","attack","the","green","snake","with","my","iron","sword"]
Next, articles and determiners (and other extraneous words) are removed:
	["attack","green","snake","with","iron","sword"]
The nounify() step combines words which appear to be a single meaningful term:
	["attack","green snake","with","iron sword"]

- parsing input in parse():

the verb is assumed to be the first term of the processed command:
	verb = "attack"
If the command is multiple terms, the preposition is found (if it exists) by comparing each term to a set of known prepositions. In this case:
	prep = "with"
if there are more terms, the direct object is assumed to be the first term after the verb that is not a preposition. In this case:
	dobj = "green snake"
if there are still more terms, the indirect object is the first term after the preposition or direct object. In this case:
	iobj = "iron sword"

So parse() assigns terms to verb, dobj, iobj, and prep. Often, some or all of these parts may not exist in the user input, in which case they are set to the value of None.

You might notice that, if a direct object is not given, 'dobj' will be set to what is actually the indirect object, and 'iobj' will remain None. Usually, this is acceptable, and the action functions are designed to handle this situation.

The nature of this input parser is such that it cannot accurately parse input with more than these four important parts. It cannot properly interpret arbitrarily complex input.

Once these four parts are determined from parsing, the verb is used to identify the corresponding action function to call with the other three parts as parameters. Like so:

	actionFunc(dobj,iobj,prep)

At which point the action function may ask for more input, do additional interpretation, or execute the action.





ROOM:

room has several attributes:
name - every room must have a unique name
description
size?
allexits: set of adjacent rooms (n, ne, e, se, s, sw, w, nw, u, d, b)
exits: set of directions denoting accessible adjacent rooms
allcontents: set of all items and creatures in the room
contents: set of booleans denoting which items and creatures are 'hidden' or not
additional room booleans and characteristics
types: "covered", "floating", "road"


#note: each object should contain a list of objects it is adjacent to in the room. Any objects adjacent to eachother must share all adjacent objects
#currently in question: should room store a 2d array of items which are passable/impassable.
#alternative answer: objects all participate in an adjacency matrix as discussed above, but they include a distance factor ranging from (adjacent, near, far, distant, on top of, under, within?) and room include a size factor (small, medium, large, vast)

#idea about movement (in or out of combat): movement determines how many steps it takes you to change from adj,near,far,distant or any of those in between. And in that "time" span it takes you to move, other creatures can do things.
#ex. you move from adj to far, which is a constant distance of 50, your movement is 30, so it takes you two steps to move, meanwhile the goblin could attack twice.

room methods:
init
repr
describe exits
describe contents
describe #gonna be elaborate


NOTES WHEN MAKING A ROOM:
- every room must have a unique name which is NOT also a term in any of the game's data sets (except the World dict, which consists entirely of Room names)
- by convention and necessity, room names must be lowercase (since user input is always lowercase and string comparisons are frequently done with room names)
- every room exit must refer to the name of an existing room (otherwise runtime errors will occur)
-pay attention to room exits. Generally, a connection between any two rooms should be two-way. That is, if "glen" has a northern exit to "big tree", "big tree" should have a southern exit to "glen". Exceptions to this recommendation are allowed but should only be used when there's good in-game reason to do so
-every item in the room must be of an existing item class
-every creature in the room must of an existing creature class




ITEM:
An item is any object in the game which can be interacted with which is not a room and which is not a creature. Specifically, an item can exist within a room's contents, within another item's contents, or within a Creature's inventory (including Player's inventory)

The simplest item has attributes; name, description, weight, and durability.
Items of class Weapon() come with a number of additional attributes regarding their statistics as a utility in combat.
Items of class Box() come with a boolean "open" attribute and a list of "contents" of Items they contain.
Items of class Sign() contain a "text" attribute"
Items of class Switch() contain an "effect" attribute, which is a string which is used with the global "effects" dict, mapping these strings to Effect functions. Effect functions affect the World in some way.

NOTES WHEN MAKING AN ITEM:
- Items do not necessarily have to have unique name, but there are parsing limitations when multiple items have the same name. Only give two items the same name if they are identical or negligibly distinct to a user.
- Items names should NOT be a term which also exists in any of the game's data sets (except the Items dict, which consists entirely of Item names). There are cases where code will be unable to reliably parse the ambiguity between an item name and some other important term, like the direction "up", or the word "toward", for instance.
- When adding an item, make sure its class exists in the Objects.py Items dict
- The order of attributes matters! when writing the attributes into the World data file, the attributes must be in the correct order as defined in the __init__ method of the class



PLAYER:

NAME - player-defined name

RACE - what character race you are, each race gets a stat bonus to two stats

DESCRIPTION - player-defined character description

BASE - defined as a dict of 10 pairs

DERIVED - defined as a dict of 24 pairs

LV - level (int)
player level, initially 1, ranges 1-20

XP - experience (int)
player experience points, initially 0, ranges.. to 100,000??

RP - reputation points (int)
reputation you've built for yourself, initially 0, ranges -100 to 100. Having a higher charisma improves your potential to alter your RP

HP - current hit points (int)
initially max, ranges 0 to MXHP

MP - current mana points (int)
initially max, ranges 0 to MXHP

MONEY - defined as a list [cp, sp, gp, pp]
			represented	by	%	&	$	@

INVENTORY - defined as a list [] containing objects of class item, infinite size

GEAR - a dict of many pairs, each one representing a slot in which an item can be equipped. Included player's hands, clothing, and additional items.

STATUS - a set of all status effects currently affecting the player

CHARACTER CREATION:

Gender:
Man +1 STR
Woman +1 CHA
Other + LCK

Age: (affects socialization)
Young +1 STM
Mature +1 INT
Aged +1 WIS
Elderly +1 FTH

Build: (affects base weight)
Lean +1 SPD
Medium +1 SKL
Hefty +1 CON



LEVELING:

XP - experience points
amount of experience player has amassed
gained by fighting, killing, socializing, praying, etc.

LV - level
player level, ranging 1 - 20
determined by XP
LV = min1(floor(  5*log10(x/10)  ))

QP - quality points
amount of experience player has with different attributes called qualities.
determined by level and race
the lowest any stat can begin at is 1
from levelup, you get 99 by level 100, for a score total of 109. You can get 41 others through quests in the game.
Ideally, if you have a score of 150, you have completed everything in the game.

Total quality points should be 9 + LV,
i.e., the player has 1 in all ten qualities at level 1, and gains 3 points total with each level up
upon leveling up the player allocates the 3 new points to the categories of their choice, in any amount they would like

BASE STATS: also called qualities, a players base stats determine all other stats, they can increase with level, and can be temporarily increased or decreased by magical effects. Each base stat affects a set of derived stats
STR - ATCK, BRDN, ATHL
SPD - ATSP, MVMT
SKL - ACCU, CRIT, ATHL, SLTH, TNKR
STM - MXHP, MXMP, RSTN, MVMT, ATHL, ENDR
CON - ATSP, DFNS, MXHP, CAST, CSSP, BRDN, MVMT, ENDR

CHA - PRSD, DCPT
INT - CAST, SPLS, RITL, SLTH, TNKR, INVS, KNLW, DCPT
WIS - MXMP, CAST, CSSP, INVS, PRSD
FTH - CAST, RSNC, LOOT, RITL
LCK - ACCU, EVSN, CRIT, LOOT, KNWL


ITEM WEIGHT REFERENCES:
1 wt = 1/4 lb ==> 1 lb = 4 wt
iron key:     1 (1/4 lb)
glass shard:  1 (1/4 lb)
glass bottle: 2 (1/2 lb)
potion:       4 (1 lb)
shortsword:   8 (2 lbs)
longsword:    20 (5 lbs)
giantsword:   40 (10 lbs)
person:       600 (150 lbs)


ITEM DURABILITY REFERENCES:
(assuming no magical reinforcement)
breadroll:    2
glass bottle: 3
iron key:     5
golden key:   6
wooden sign:  8
wooden table: 9
wooden chest: 10
bronze bell:  12
stone statue: 14
soft sword:   15
hard sword:   18


WEAPON STATS:

weight
affects ATSP, MVMT
ranging 1 - 20

might
affects ATCK
ranging 1 - 20

sleight
affects ACCU
ranging 1 - 20

sharpness
affects CRIT
ranging 1 - 20

range
affects HIT%
ranging 1 - 20

reach
affects attack distance
ranging whatever



ARMOR STATS:

weight
affects CAST, CSSP, MVMT
ranging 1 - 20

protection
affects DFNS
ranging whatever

SHIELD STATS:

weight
affects ATSP
ranging 1 - 20

protection
affects DFNS
ranging whatever



DERIVED STATS:
24 stats, also called abilites. These stats can be affected by base stats, other derived stats, and the player's equipment. These stats affect the actions taken by the player, including attacks, casting spells, and social interaction. Each derived stat has a formula it is determined by.

ACCU - accuracy
50 + 2*SKL + LCK + weapon.sleight
chance to hit against enemy evasion
chance to catch a projectile

ATCK - attack
STR d weapon.might
the amount of max possible damage to the opponent before their damage reduction

ATSP - attack speed
SPD - min0(weapon.weight - CON) - min0(shield.weight - CON)
number of attacks against enemy attack speed
combat order?

EVSN - evasion
2*ATSP + LCK
chance to not avoid hit (against enemy ACCU)
ability to escape restraint

CRIT - critical hit
SKL + LCK + weapon.sharpness
chance of a double-damage hit
ability to get a bullseye

DFNS - defense
CON + armor.protection + shield.protection
physical damage negation

MXHP - max hit point
LV*CON + STM
capacity of total health

MXMP - max magic points
LV*WIS + STM
capacity of total magic

CAST - casting bonus
WIS + FTH + INT - min0(armor.weight - CON)
bonus applied to various magical effects

CSSP - casting speed
WIS - min0(inventory.weight - BRDN) - min0(armor.weight - CON)
speed to cast a spell

SPLS - number of spells
2*INT
the maximum number of spells known

RSTN - resistance
2*FTH + STM
magical damage negation

BRDN - burden
CON*STR + 20
maximum inventory carrying capacity without being hindered
2*BRDN is hard maximum inventory carrying capacity

MVMT - movement
SPD + STM + 10 - min0(inventory.weight - BRDN) - min0(armor.weight - CON) OR mount MVMT
movement distance
turn order

LOOT - item drop rate
2*LCK + FTH
the rate and tier at which items and gold are dropped by enemies

RITL - ritual
2*FTH + LCK
ability to cast magical rituals and healing spells

ATHL - athletics
STR + SKL + STM
ability to achieve physical feats
ability to climb walls
ability to restrain an enemy (against their EVSN)
ability to ride an unwilling enemy (against their ATHL)

ENDR - endurance
2*STM + CON
ability to endure things (poison, holding breath, regeneration, etc.)

SLTH - stealth
2*SKL + INT - min0(inventory.weight - BRDN)
ability to hide
ability to steal without being noticed

TNKR - tinker
2*INT + SKL
ability to craft items
quality of cooked items
quality of repaired items

INVS - investigation
2*WIS + INT
ability to percieve lies
ability to perceive hidden creatures and things

KNWL - knowledge
2*INT + LCK
chance to know things (unlocks some intelligent dialogue)
unlocks ability to craft certain items and learn certain spells

PRSD - persuasion
2*CHA + WIS
ability to persuade (unlocks some persuasive dialogue)

DCPT - deception
2*CHA + INT
ability to deceive (unlocks some deceptive dialogue)



SWITCHES, LEVERS, BUTTONS:

A switch is a superclass which contains levers and buttons
Switches can be interacted with (via "use","pull","switch","press",etc.)
When a switch is "triggered", it calls a specific effect which affects something about the world. In data, switches are stored with a string which refers to a function stored in the effects dict (at the bottom of Objects.py)
This function is called when a switch is "triggered"

Levers are switches that have 2 states; on or off. They change something when switched "on", and have the reverse effect when switched "off"

Buttons are switches that simply do something when they are triggered. There can be permanent buttons, which can only be triggered once, or recurring buttons which can be triggered multiple times.

Traps are switches that are triggered when the player performs an action other than "pull","switch", or "press". In other words, a switch which is triggered unintentionally by the player. Typically, a trap can only be triggered once, i.e. it has an attribute which begins as "off" and can only be changed to "on"


WHAT CAN SWITCHES DO? (EXAMPLES)

They can change the gamemode
They can make an item or creature appear in the room
Can alter something about an item, creature, or fixture in the room
They can reveal a door to another room
They can alter a players stats or status
They can alter something in a different room in the world



A GENERIC ACTION FUNCTION:

if prepositions are invalid, return false
if dobj or iobj values are required but not provided, ask for them
search for required iobj and dobj objects in room or on player:
	if they do not exist, return false
if required iobj and dobj do not have the necessary attributes, return
if the item object is affected in some way, call the relevant item methods
if the player object is affected in some way, call relevant player methods
return True


TYPES OF ACTION FUNCTIONS:

-no-prep function: functions which cannot take a preposition value:
-single-prep functions: functions which take a single prepositon, usually "with"
-multi-prep functions: functions which take a number of possible prep values

-inventory search function: functions which search the player inv for an item
-room item search function: functions which search room contents for an item
-room creature search function: search room occupants for a creature
-room search functions: search room for an item or creature
-item search function: search room and player inv for an item
-object search function: search room and player inv for creature or item


CHEAT CODES:

huzzah
excelsior
godmode
oogabooga
opensesame
faex
deusvult
pepe
madmax

IDEAS FOR CREATURES/NPCS:

generally, three categories of creatures,
person, monster, animal
"villain" - subclass; big bad version of person
"boss" - subclass; big bad version of a monster
"beast" - subclass; big bad version of an animal

all creatures have two stats associated with behavior toward the player:

fondness: -100 to 100, represents how much they like the player, a creature with high fondness for the player is less likely to act aggressively toward the player, and more likely to be persuaded or deceived by the player

fear: -100 to 100, represents how much they fear the player, a creature with high fear of the player is less likely to act aggressively toward the player, and less likely to be deceived by the player, but more likely to be persuaded

people have dialogue options for the player and can be communicated with, persuaded, or deceived.

monsters and animals cannot communicate with the player. Animals typically act more passively than monsters and have a limited set of actions they can take. Monsters can use items and weapons.

each person has an initial value for their fondness and fear of new strangers (meaning the player), but upon meeting the player each time, their values deviate from that initial value with a firstImpression() function, which takes in several factors, including the player's amount gear, their type of gear, and their reputation points and sets their fondness and fear values. fear and fondness change with very subsequent meeting with the player to a lesser degree based on the same factors.

fondness and fear are changed by specific dialogue options pursued by the player, and specific actions taken by the player taken toward the creature. additionally, dialogue options the player has with a given person are dependent upon how fond or fearful the person is.

These values can also change, for monsters and animals as well, based on certain actions like giving gifts, buying and selling merchandise, attacking, healing, or casting a spell

//note: creatures should contain a value which indicates how it will be addressed e.g. "The goblin", "Goblin", "a goblin", "goblins"


MAKING AN ATTACK:

turn order is determined by ATSP:
    order is highest to lowest attack speed,
    ties are settled by the highest SPD
    ties of SPD are settled by 'attacker goes first'
number of attacks is determined:
    n = floor(ATSP / target.ATSP) //maybe
for each attack:
    chance to hit is determined:
        if weapon.ranged
            HIT = min1(max99(ACCU - target.EVSN)) - min0(dist(player, target) - weapon.range)
        else
            HIT = min1(max99(ACCU - target.EVSN))
		percentage roll to HIT
    chance to crit is rolled
    attack is rolled:
		attack = STR d weapon.might
		if critical
			attack *= 3
    damage is calculated:
		damage = min0(attack - target.DFNS)
    damage is dealt:
        enemy.hp -= damage
		#called in the enemy object, dmgtype passed as well

EQUIPPING ITEMS/WEAPONS:

ASSIGNING WEAPONS AND SHIELDS

CASTING A SPELL:

really just depends...



DAMAGE TYPES:

p: piercing	[phys] - weapons that can stab
s: slashing	[phys] - weapons that can slice
b: bludgeoning	[phys] - weapons that can crush

f: fire	[elem] - weapons that can burn [can cause burning condition]
c: cold	[elem] - weapons that can freeze [can cause frozen condition]
l: lightning [elem] - weapons that can shock [can cause paralyzed condition]
t: thunder [elem] - weapons that can burst [can cause deafened condition]
a: acid [elem] - weapons that can corrode
x: poison [elem] - weapons that can poison (duh)

n: necrotic [mag] - weapons that drain lifeforce
r: radiant [mag] - weapons that imbue holiness
v: force	[mag] - weapons that evoke magical force
i: psychic [mag] - weapons that harm the mind

e: essential [dev] - weapons that transcend the universe



STATUS EFFECTS:

status conditions exist in the creatures status list as list pairs
of condition name and duration.
negative durations have special meanings:
-1 means the condition is inflicted by being in the current room. It will end when the player leaves the room or when the room's condition's duration ends
-2 means the condition is permanent until it is removed by some general source
-3 or lower means the condition is permanent until removed by a specific source

rooms have status effects too. And rooms can harbor condition which afflict creatures in the room with other status conditions. When this happens, the room condition's name will contain the information about the condition to inflict upon the creatures. For instance, if a room is filled with poisonous gas for 30 time units and will poison all creatures that enter until they leave (or until the rooms condition wears off). the rooms condition pair would be of the form:

["afflict poisoned -1", 30]

if the room is simply on fire for 10 more time units, and will ignite any creatures in the room for 15 units, even leaving the room will not save them after being set ablaze. In this case, the room's condition pair would be of the form:

["afflict on fire 15", 10]






curses;

weakness - lowers STR
slowness - lowers SPD
clumsiness - lowers SKL
weariness - lowers STM
illness - lowers CON

timidity - lowers CHA
stupidity - lowers INT
insanity - lowers WIS
apathy - lowers FTH
calamity - lower LCK

blessings;

brawniness - raises STR
swiftness - raises SPD
prowess - raises SKL
liveliness - raises STM
toughness - raises CON

felicity - raises CHA
sagacity - raises INT
lucidity - raises WIS
fidelity - raises FTH
prosperity - raises LCK


CONDITION IDEAS:

some condition summaries:
- frozen (can't move and also taking damage over time, removed (cancels) with burning)
- paralyzed (just can't move)
- poisoned (little damage, lasts a long time)
- bleeding (medium damage, lasts medium amount)
- burning (lost of damage, last short amount usually, negates frozen, ignite anything you touch)
- wet (doubles lightning damage, negates burning)
- cool (bonus to RP)
- smelly (penalty to love?)
- enchanted (huge bonus to love)
- haunted (huge bonus to fear)
- blind (can't see, not sure how to implement this??, just some descriptions go silent I guess)
- asleep (can't do anything, will wake up if takes damage or becomes wet)
- restrained (cant willingly move or do many actions?)
- prone (penalty to EVSN and MVMT? bonus to SLTH)
- crouched (like prone but less significant?)
- invisible (huge bonus to SLTH, affects dialogue somehow)
- petrified (immune to damage, but can't move, maybe just kills you and turns you to a statue)
- lignified (perhaps same as petrified. would become more vulnerable to fire damage)
- hindered (penalty to speed)
- sanguine (overflow damage heals)
- eagle-eyed (something that gives you great ranged aim)
- throwmaster (gives you bonus to throwing speed?)


'cool' with glasses or something so it says "you are cool"
raising a base stat
raising a derived stat
lowering a base stat
lowering a derived stat
resistance to a damage type
invulnerability to a damage type
vulnerability to a damage type
raising fondness of creature - raises fondness by some int for a creature name
raising fear of creature - raises fondness by some int for a creature name
insanity - creature might act randomly instead of based on input criteria
rage (aggression for all targets)
ire (aggression for a target)
bloodied - could change creature behavior, also useful for certain effects
lignified - creature cannot move and is flammable
petrified - creature cannot move and is not flammable and is much heavier
frozen - creature cannot move and is immune to cold damage
paralyzed - creature cannot move or act
restrained - creature cannot attack, cast, or use items
burning - creature takes damage every turn
poisoned - creature takes damage every turn
sleep - creature will not act and will wake up if they are damaged
blinded - creature cannot see, it influences their perception inputs
deafened - creature cannot hear, it influences their perception inputs
prone - creature moves more slowly??? idk here
hindered - creature is slowed
spellbound - cant cast
disguised - creature appears to be something/someone else (idk how to do this)
polymorphed - creature has entirely different stats and abilities (maybe store all previous stats in a JSON string)
invisible - creature is perfectly hidden
flying - creature can move freely in any direction
waterbreathing (amphibious?) - cannot drown
feather fall - cannot take fall damage
gaseous form - can fly and is intangible
truesight - can see invisible things
darkvision - can get full descriptions in darkness
opulence - double money recieved
chefskiss - better at cooking
greenthumb - good at planting or something
in a sphere/bubble (enbubbled) - immune to physical damage, can't attack, drop, take
hunters mark - idk??? ....
thornshield - (thornskin maybe), when taking physical melee damage, deal damage to damager



EQUIPMENT PROPERTIES:

	WEAPON;
	nimble - bonus to attack speed
	keen - weapon doesn't lose sharpness
	striker - increased chance to hit/crit
	flaming - sets enemy on fire
	venom - poisons enemy
	frost - freezes enemy
	brilliant
	bright
	ironweave
	brave
	breaker
	magic
	razor
	searing

	mithril
	gold
	silver
	steel
	iron
	bronze
	tin
	wood
	glass

	ARMOR;
	sanguine - overflow defense heals
	fortitude - invulnerability to a dmg type
	patient
	valorous
	robust
	phoenix - fire damage
	spooky - causes frightening

	mithril
	gold
	silver
	steel
	iron
	bronze
	leather
	cloth



ITEM IDEAS:

main types of magic items:
rings - passive buffs
wands - effect like "__ spells cast with this have bonus"
staves - effect like "__ spells cast with this have bonus"
scroll - allows you to learn a spell
tome - allows you to learn multiple spells
gear - wearable, can have passive effects or active effects

Norman items;
Norman's sword
Norman's shield
Norman's etc.

WEAPONS:
Estoc
The Master Boomerang - (always comes back no matter what u do with it)
other boomerangs
blade of healing (useless mostly)
Raygun (that deals E damage)
Paragon Blade
Durendal (never loses sharpness, has a high sharpness)
Caliburn
Tyrfing (Cursed)
Shamshir (Poisonous)
Carnwennan (Shadow Dagger)
Sword with the same name as a princess (sounds like Eilonwy maybe)
Swords Gram and Mimung (from Wayland)
Courtain - shortsword owned by Ogier or Karaheut
Joyeuse - sparkling rainbow sword, owned by Baligant


GEAR:
Cloak of Bees
Nebula Shroud/Cloak

Hauberk, Hauburgeon, Cuirass 
Jerkin, Tabard, Surcoat, Gambeson
Brigandine, Splintmail, Chaimail,
Vambrace, Greaves, Sabatons,
Burnoose
Tam-o-shanter
Kirtle
Liripipe


MAGIC ITEMS:
Pomander
Camphor Staff (or sm othr tree idk) Gingko Staff? etc,
willow staff, banyan, aspen, birch, baobab, elm, sycamore, oak, pine, cyprus
nimbus rod, cumulus rod, stratus rod
the magic map
(Magic?) Umbrella
Magic Teapot (or just a normal teapot idk)
Astra - from hindu myth, divine projectiles
Olifant - magic horn
glyph totem (or rune totem?)


MISC EQUIPMENT:
shovel, trowel, spade
Evil eye - wards off spirits
Pantalon
Step Reckoner
Abacus
Amphora
Shrunken heads
dunce hat
hourglass item (actually does something useful?)
map item (maybe at any given room, tells u direction toward a destination)
deck of card with suits: swords, stars, flowers, something else?


Sci-fi set

(Newton/Gravity Something)
Raygun (Lazer Mauser)
Gauss Rifle (Coilgun)
Lorentz Rifle (Railgun)
Maxwell Cannon (Plasma Cannon)
Faraday Shield (Lightning Shied)


An item set named after all the greek letters (super powerful)
each one has a magical effect associated with each of the 24 derived stats

Alpha sword			CRIT
Beta axe				ATCK
Delta cloak			SLTH
Gamma bow				ACCU
Epsilon ring		CSSP
Zeta wand				CAST

Eta flask				MXHP
Theta gauntlet	TNKR
Iota key				KNWL
Kappa horn			DCPT
Lambda lyre			PRSD
Mu stone				MXMP

Nu dagger				ATSP
Xi amulet				RITL
Omicron tome		SPLS
Pi compass			LOOT
Rho pack				BRDN
Sigma tunic			EVSN

Tau hammer			ATHL
Upsilon glaive	ENDR
Phi helm				RSTN
Chi torch				INVS
Psi boots				MVMT
Omega shield		DFNS



FOOD AND CONSUMABLE ITEMS:

consumable items can heal hp, regenerate mp, and add or remove status effects.
cooked/constructed meals have effects that are greater than the sum of their parts. different food groups tend to provide different benefits

proteins/meats - vastly increase hp, synergize well in meals
grains/starches - moderately increase hp, cheapest/most common
fruits - minimally increase hp, each fruit adds a different status effect
veggies - minimally increase hp and mp, can remove bad status effects
mushrooms - have one significant benefit and one debuff
dairy - minimally increase hp and mp, can remove bad status effects
alcohol - same effects as fruit, but adds drunkeness
water - raises hp and mp by 2

Potions are bottled items that have different effects. Types of potions are:
Red, Pink (deadly), Burgundy, Scarlet
Orange, Rusty, Tawny, Amber,
Yellow, Blond, Ochre, Citrine,
Green, Viridian, Mossy, Chartreuse
Blue, Azure, Teal, Cyan
Purple, Lavender, Indigo, Violet
Clear (dissolves?), Brown (burns?), Black (explodes), Grey, White
Bronze (defense), Silver (speed), Gold (atk/dmg/crit)

potions - described by color.
elixirs - highly magical, described by effect
philter - love potion
anti-philter - fear potion
tonic - medicinal, nonmagical, described by contents, energizing/antidote effects or similar
brew - unknown brewed things
tincture - dyes
elixir of truth - (mark dlog nodes as lies), dlog becomes green, red if its a lie


Fruits:

Apple - reduces disease conditions (special apple for special diseases?)
Banana
Blueberry
Blackberry
Breadfruit

Cherry
Coconut
Cowberry
Cranberry
Currant (Black) - physical resistance

Currant (Red) - elemental resistance
Currant (White) - magical resistance
Dragonfruit - firebreath? fly? fire resistance?
Durian - bonus to endurance or wpn durability?
Elderberry

Fig
Ghostberry - ghost effects? gaseous form? cold resistance (as snowberry)?
Gojiberry - something awesome, remove all bad conditions?
Goldenberry - double money gained?
Gooseberry - bonus to luck?

Grape
Grapefruit - temporarily raises MXMP
Guava
Huckleberry
Jujube

Juniperberry
Kiwi
Kumquat - something with mp
Lemon - improved spells
Lime - improved spells some other way

Loquat
Lychee
Mango
Mulberry - immune to bleed?
Muskmelon - immune to poison

Olive
Passionfruit - bonus to social interaction (love stat)
Peach
Pear
Persimmon

Pitanga
Plum
Pricklepear - thornshield
Pineapple
Pomegranate

Quince
Raspberry
Seaberry - water breathing
Starfruit
Strawberry

Tangerine - double regen of MP
Watermelon - water walking?


OTHER PLANTS:
hops (to make beer)
herb of immortality (makes potion, can be smoked? made into quintessence?)
mushrooms - glowing ones too
poisonwood
juniper - gin, oil, wood
myrtle - oil/scent
cork trees - to make cork
boxwood
hawthorn
blackthorn
gorse
firethorn
buckthorn - yields jujube
wormwood
cotton
hemp - rope, paper, cannabis?
rosemary - smells good
scrollreed - for papyrus
lavender
mugwort - flavoring beer, oil, dreams and divination
yarrow
mandrake - toxic, screaming
wolfsbane - super toxic
sage - clarity, sagacity, smells good
rue - "herb of grace"
mayweed - "chamomile", calming, used in tea
meadowsweet - pain reliever, used in mead
king solomon's seal - protects against evil?
nightshade - super poisonous, sedative
fairyglove - toxic?
dandelion - liver, diuretic, grants wishes?
henbane - hallucinogenic, used for flight by witches
carnation
poppy - opiate
rose - beautiful and smells good, thorny
orchid - beautiful
daisy - nothing special
sunflower - seeds?
moonflower - might be used in making rubber?
lotus - aquatic, longevity, used in food and tea
goldenrod - dye, honey, rubber?
lily - aquatic, beautiful
vervaine - protection and love
hyssop - biblical mint, purification
spearmint - flavor
peppermint
peppercorns
thyme - embalming, gives courage?
clover - lucky, makes honey?
holygrass - used for ceremonies
lovage - psychic powers?
woodruff - used for dye, perfume/smell
muskroot - smell, oil
bruisewort - "knitbone" heals bones?
woundwort - heals wounds?
ragweed - allergies
tomeleaf
keyflower - reveals treasure or key to fairy realm?
fleabane - kills insects?
starflower - causes courage?
hoarhune - expells parasites, helps coughs
heartwort
mallow - found in marsh, sweet
sweetroot - "licorice"
fennel - spice, strength
nettle - ouch!
bloodroot - red dye, acidic
anix - yummy absinthe
pansy
tansy - insect repellent, delays spoilage, wards of disease
coriander - used in food, soap?
bishopwort - mint family, considered highly protective, holy water, ointment?
valerian - catnip, causes sleep?
goatweed - aphrodisiac?
flax
fireweed
burdock - pairs well with dandelion in mead, wards off evil? velcro
butterbur - sticky
cocklebur - spiny
tea plant
foxfire (glowing mushrooms)
bergamot?
woad - dye
weld - dye
madder - dye
potherb
rhubarb
bulrush


MINERALS/CHEMICALs:
peat, lignite, coal, charcoal, glass/frit,
flint, granite, chert, sandstone, shale, slate, feldspar, soapstone, greywacke, pitrock,
blackstone, bluestone, whitestone, whinstone, cinder, fieldstone, lodestone
marble, basalt, quartz, serpentine, jade, 
orpiment, realgar, verdigris, amber, azurite, corundum,
bone ash, grey ash -> potash -> pearl ash, salt ash or natron -> soda ash -> lye
whitestone or chalk -> quicklyme (burns) -> mortar or plaster
saltpeter, brimstone, coal coke
gravel, sand, silt, clay, loam, soot
calrete (kind of limestone)
firestone (pyrite, source of iron and brimstone)
leadglance (galena)
alabaster, jet, bloodstone, onyx, pitchblende -> yellowcake
copper, tin (found amongst granite), silver, gold, titanium, cobalt
borax, calamine


sticklac (from lacbug) -> seedlac -> shellac
shellac -> candy glaze
shellac -> lacquer
certain sap -> lacquer
benzoin, mastic, pine resin, hashish, bdellion, turpentine, myrhh, balsam
gesso

burning seaweed or saltwort -> soda ash, also known as natron
coal coke, grey ash, bone ash are used for iron and steel


MISC ITEM IDEAS:
cadeuceus
uroboros
holy water
something called "ersatz ___"
something called "tentacular __"
congerie
molasses
cassone
brine (can get salt/salmiac from it?)
albumen (egg whites)
wainscot
elixir of immortality (also requires venom)
strange milk - makes you high, made from cows fed certain mushrooms
Catgut
ambergris
chaff - inedible plant matter
volcano snail teeth (strongest biological substance)
urim and thummim
alembic
something called "vim"
lodestone
wooden spoon
crocs - made from crocodile
papyrus (made from plant stems)
paper (cotton, linen, hemp, wood)
parchment (white, vellum, purple)
inks (black, blue, red, silver, golden)
lacbug -> carmine
credenza
star jelly
grass jelly
royal jelly
skep (beekeping)
beeswax, honeycomb, honey
spider silk
golden orb weaver silk
linen, silk, cotton, wool
yarn, loom, bolt of fabric, torn rag
burlap, canvas, denim, tweed, flannel, fustian, russet
bitumen (ore), pitch (liquid), naphtha,
peat, lignite, resin, briquette
horn, ivory, tortoiseshell (from carapace)


CRAFTING/RECIPE IDEAS:

boiling bones/hoofs/horns/talons -> glue
scrollreed: harvest -> reed stems
reed stems: glue -> papyrus
hide/pelt: wash in solution -> untanned leather
untanned leather: stretch/dye/cut -> parchment
rag/torn cloth/cotton/linen/hemp/wood: bath in solution -> [x] pulp
[x] pulp: strain -> [x] paper
soot + treegum/glue -> black ink
woodgall: crush/leach -> gallwater (tannic acid)
gallwater + green vitriol -> blue ink (iron gall ink)
gallwater also used to tan leather
also red ink (blood or carmine?), silver ink, and gold ink
treegum: -> shoe polish


	CLOTHES:

thread types:
hemp (midweight, strong, rough)
linen (midweight, tempered, mid)
cotton (light, weak, soft)
wool (heavy, tempered, soft)
silk (light, strong, soft)
^^^ each of these threads can be spun on a spinning wheel from the raw fibers

hemp thread: ply -> twine (nets)
linen thread: ply -> linen string (bows fishing)
cotton thread: ply -> cotton string (wicks, yoyos, cotton swab?)
silk threads: ply -> silk string (bows, fishing)

yarn: knit -> hodden
twine: ply -> hemp rope
silk string: ply -> silk rope

plain weave:
hemp + hemp -> sackcloth
linen + linen -> coarse linen (cheap light clothes, cloths/towels)
cotton + cotton -> sailcloth (sails, tent, canvases)
wool + wool -> hodden (cheap warm clothes)
hemp + any -> sackloth
linen + cotton -> buckram (hats, books, bandages)
linen + wool -> broadcloath (upholstery)
cotton + wool -> russet (cheap mid clothes)

twill weave:
linen + linen -> linen (standard light cloth)
cotton + cotton -> denim (durable)
wool + wool -> tweed
linen + cotton -> fustian (well rounded)
linen + wool -> serge (protective)
cotton + wool -> flannel (warm)

satin weave:
linen + linen -> fine linen (light)
cotton + cotton -> sateen (shiny, soft but weaker than satin)
wool + wool -> cassimere (very warm and soft)
silk + silk -> satin (most prized)
linen + cotton -> cambric (small fine items)
linen + wool -> gabardine (officer uniforms, grey formal)
cotton + wool -> poplin (wedding dress, light formal)
silk + linen -> linsilk (wizard clothes)
silk + cotton -> velvet (soft and delicate)
silk + wool -> bombasine (dark formal)

^^^ any cloth can be torn into its equivalent "rags"
rags, or some wood and plant fibers can be dissolved and beaten into their fiber pulp in 
a certain solution. rags of silk and cotton turn into least amount o pulp. pulp can also be 
pressed into paper in a paper press. perhaps pulp needs to be treated to change its quality:
(brown paper, white paper)

non woven fabrics:
pigskin, goatskin, fleece, cowhide, horsehide, ermine, squirrel skin
^^^ these can be cut and sewn directly into hide clothes, or turned to leather
any hide: lime bath -> rawhide
rawhide: tannen bath -> leather
^^^ can be cut and sewn into leather armor
rawhide: stretching+cutting -> parchment/vellum


cotton fabric + blue dye (woad) -> denim -> blue jeans


	BREWS:

tea plant: pluck -> tea leaf
tea leaf: boil -> white tea, cook -> roasted tea leaf, ground -> ground tea leaf
roasted tea leaf: boil -> yellow tea, cook -> ash, ground -> green tea powder
green tea powder: boil -> green tea, cook -> ash
ground tea leaf: boil -> brown tea, cook -> black tea powder
black tea powder: boil -> black tea, cook -> ash

green tea powder + jasmine blossoms: jasmine tea
green tea powder + mint leaf: mint tea
green tea powder + lotus flower: lotus tea
black tea powder + bergamot oil: earl grey powder
black tea powder + cinnamon + cardamom: chai powder
black tea powder + rose: rose tea

coffee tree: pluck -> coffee cherry
coffee cherry: dry -> coffee raisin
coffe raisin: hull -> coffee bean
coffee bean: roast -> roasted coffee bean
roasted coffee bean: grind -> coffee powder
coffee powder: boil -> coffee

kola plant: harvest -> kola nut
kola nut: grind -> ground kola
ground kola: brew/boil -> kola tonic (maybe also require a leaf or burdock and dandelion?)

crimson + clover: brew -> philter, maybe a crimson flower instead of lacbug?

elderflower tonic (cordial)

	POTTERY:

red/yellow clay: heat 1000c -> earthenware
red/yellow clay: heat 1500c+ -> shatters

grey/black clay: heat 1000c -> bisqueware (can be glazed and refired @ low temp)
grey/black clay: heat 1500c -> stoneware
grey/black clay: heat 2000c+ -> shatters

white clay: heat 1000c -> white bisqueware (can be glazed and refired @ low temp)
white clay: heat 1500c -> white stoneware
white clay: heat 2000c -> porcelain

^^^ these can be mixed with grog (crushed shards), sand, or frit (glass)
any mixed with frit becomes fritware
if mixed with silt or loam, it will shatter
different kilns reach different heats, "dragon kiln" will get it to 2000
fire pit, bonfire, kiln, sagger kiln, bloomery, furnace
red clay: filter -> yellow clay + silt
black clay: filter -> grey clay + silt
leaching ash in water makes a basic glaze foundation
mixing basic glaze with minerals creates colored glazed
glazes: celadon (green glaze), faience, bucchero, lusterware, majolica
can mix with sienna, umber, red ochre, gold ochre
delftware is made with faience

	PIGMENTS:

woad leaf: grind -> woad leaf powder: soak -> woad pulp: dry -> indigo (powder): brew -> blue dye
madder root: grind -> madder powder: boil -> alizarin (powder): brew -> red dye
weld flower: boil -> yellow dye
^^^ can get green from mixing blue and yellow, or from another plant
red + yellow/blue makes brown dye; purple and orange are from their own sources

vermilion fromm cinnabar
carmine from cochineal
ultramarine from skystone (lapis lazuli)

plant-based pigments require mixing with alum to make into useful dye
indigo is an exception, it requires urine
mineral pigments make good paint but not dye

	ALCHEMY:

leaching dung (calcium nitrate) with potash -> saltpeter + chalk (calcium carbonate)
roasting alumen (found amongst shale) -> alum
roasting/leaching yellow clay + potash -> alum
roasting/leaching white clay + brimstone -> alum

roasting grey, black, red, yellow clay -> sienna, umber, red ochre, gold ochre

green vitriol - made from leaching firestone or brimstone + iron with water and air
oil of vitriol (sulfuric acid)
ether (made from alcoohl and oil of vitriol)
aqua fortis - green vitriol + nitre
aqua regia (strongest acid) salmiac + aqua fortis

	METALLURGY:

tin + ??? -> pewter
tin + copper -> bronze
iron + carbon -> steel

	COOKING:

drying fish -> stockfish


WORLD DESIGN IDEAS:

several different "dungeons" exist in the the world
however, I dont want them to be super "temple-y" like Legend of Zelda. that feels too restrictive, i want the world to feel less linear/sequential and a bit more open-ended

so these dungeons are generally just clusters of room nodes in the world graph that match a certain theme or aesthetic, and they have different general difficulty levels

- regular forest (starting location)
- the gallery
- hinterlands
- slime dungeon?
- mobile massive wizard school (with portal entrances around the world)
- a buried giant (inside of which is a dungeon? rooms like "giant foot")
	- 'giants tomb', 'giants grave'?
- haunted manor, abandoned manor on a hill thats v spooky
- ancient mystical forest, full of illusions thats difficult to navigate
- the catacombs, simple basic religious dungeon under a giant old cathedral
- atlantis, underwater castle thats coral reef themed and fun, entered by getting to an island somewhere
- caverns, early dungeon that is large underground caverns
- necropolis, a massive sandy persian themed graveyard
- "the tower", tower of ___, hundreds of floors, considered scary and forbidden by nearby townsfolk, probably one of the most dangerous dungeons
- skyland, a beanstalk leads to a giants house? or smth on a floating cloud?
- labyrinth, underground labyrinth (maybe library themed), that has magical connections to all kinds of places all over the world
- mineshaft, underground mines maybe
- spaceship, extra idea maybe with aliens lol
	- in the alien spaceship have a recording or text log of a dead captain/space explorer
- snowy peaks, maybe ice castle? something cold themed
- hunt the wumpus map, with a WUMPUS!!! and traps and whatnot
- at the bottom of the pit, a temple to the imprisoned god uramut.
	Uramut manages to possess someone in the world and they gouge their eyes out and have one yellow eye on their head, Uramut wants to be released.
- hell: tartatus, hades, sheol, gehinnom, abaddon, kur, kigal, ersetu, cocytus, duzakh (house of lies)
	- palace Ganzir,

several settlements exist in the world (aim for like at least 9)
- Folkston/Folksvale
- Ratcatcher Mill/Ratstead/Ratcatchers Pass
- Goosetower
- Bellfort
- Dandelot

HISTORICAL CITY IDEAS:
phillopolos (feldiv/pilov) - still exists
jericho (ariha) - still exists, has an ancient tree 
catalhoyuk (kadala) - razed by first empire
jerusalem (shalem) - disappeared into a crater (became a floating city)
knossos (nessos) - sank
uruk (orca) - nuked (engulfed by dragon, maybe orcs are from here in irradiated place)
nineveh (ninava) - desertified by demons
babylon (babilim) - still exists as a village, dismantled in civil war brick by brick
luoyang - unknown
xian - unknown
cahokia - unknown
norte chico - unknown
chichen itza - unknown

ADDITIONAL PLACE IDEAS:
- xanadu
- shangri-la
- gundahar
- the burgage (rented complex)
- brigadoon (disappearing village)
- apple forest (early quest setting)
- seawall
- colonnade
- amphitheatre
- pavilion
- panopticon
- atelier (workshop)
- athenaeum
- lyceum (lot of lychee around)
- the garden path "to mislead someone"
- a very smelly tree (why did I write this?)
- black lotus
- a talking cave
- The quivering quill (a spell store)
- The stove, a tavern or speakeasy or hideout
- A casino or various luck based gambling games in the world
- a circus?
- small peoples like the minish and maybe theyre quirky in some way
- a zoo (royal menagerie?) in the big city
- ophidiarium - snake aquarium
- town called "fleet-something"
- town called "___-burn"
- brothel, when you go in it gives an ellipsis and then you leave.

INSTITUTIONS:
- royal messengers (mages that maintain teleportation)
- royal guard (spellswords)
- clothier's guild
- alchemist's guild
- builder's guild
- smiths are unguilded (independent)
- ranger's guild (robinhood types? not a real guild?)
- raveneers (Neurtal mercenaries/adventurers/assassins)
- frith guild
- beghards and beguines

MISC WORLD IDEAS:
- witengamot
- "omens aghast" as a greeting
- grimoire, book of spells
- tome, book of lore
- therimoire, book of recipes/rituals? or good spells?
- the world underwent a 'cataclysm' and then a 'salvation'
- giant eternal clock
- a story legend of a hero who masters magic in an underground empire, called "ZORK"
- monolith/obelisk
- magic nail (like golden railroad nail?)
- fighting ur nega/anti self
- sign that says "no philandering!"
- gnomes
- chantry, alms, heriot
- midden (old garbage heap?)
- magic art museum?
- wicklewort trees
- something called "The Wizard's Fee"
- Eternal Stew
- bonefire
- a deal with a demon (with consequences)
- label that reads "FOR SCIENTIFIC USE ONLY"
- RICKROLL
- the four horsemen of awesomeness (or happiness)
- pandora box "banishment box" which unleashes all creatures the player has ever banished with the banish spell
- limericks/poems/poem book?
- the mist
- a jar that is REALLY hard to open
- bottomless pit
- An orb "ponder the orb?" maybe multiple orbs to ponder in the world like 7
	- fortune telling orbs which might alter your future?
- the four humors
- "sphinx of black quartz, judge my vow"
- "if you see a fox in the forest, don't follow it"
- "Abandon all hope, ye who enter here"
- "If you listen I can tell you more about this world" - someone who only lies
- seven wonders: lighthouse, colossus, gardens, citadel/castle, mountain sanctuary, 
	mausoleum, giant tree, huge obelisk, giant cavern/stone temple, island palace,
	giant library (Athenaeum), cathedral, tower of some kind, colosseum/arena, 
	catacombs/necropolis, pavilion, stonehenge type (the __ stones)
- obelisks at different leylines, maybe they're called leystones or monoliths




QUEST IDEAS:
- whodunit mystery (one or two of these)
- becoming an esteemed knight
- jack and the beanstalk quest with hen and harp
- a rabid tiger is terrorizing a town. should kill it
- golden bug quest (collect 50 hidden bugs throughout the world) [reward??]
- one quest for each god's temple, and the player gets rewarded with a QP for it and a word from the god.
- bone faeries which will give you money for bones
- fighting bones malone and the spooky boys
- impersonating someone to gain entry to a place


CHARACTER NAME IDEAS:
	The zodiac signs
	The Lady of the Lake
	Enchantress of Number(Numeral)
	All-knowing demon that follows you (Laplace's Demon)
	villain king of people
	villain king of monsters
	villain king of beasts
	giant swamp crocodile
	Lilith - demon lady? (Secretly a demon lady???)
	Mammon - demon representing greed?
	Glycon the false Serpent God (secretly a puppet?)
	Balthazar the Wizard
	A mage named Greengage
	Demons named null and void
	Master of Ravens
	Sir Tom Knight (Sir Tom the Hero!)
	Mr.Oliphant
	Sir Bors
	Gremlaw the Goblin
	The Oracle
	Yernagate the wise 
	Boyg - from Peer Gynt, gigantic troll serpent
	Leviathan
	Swan Maiden
	Gog and Magog - maybe evil?
	one bbeg is the world serpent called Aeormungand (Leviathan?), also called Demiurge
	The Green Goddess
	Galigantus the giant
	Grendel
	Sylvain - hero
	Pergynt - from myth, maybe an ex-hero guy
	Archons (regional rulers? maybe names for the giants)
	Ashaver - Wandering eternal old man, was a cobbler
	Saint guinefort - holy dog
	Gelert, another good dog
	Dovregubben (the mountain king) from Peer Gynt. Rescuing three dairy maids?
	Polemarch (archon of war)
	Hazelnut farmer with children named, fil, bert, hazel, and pet nut
	The Benevolent Frog King (looking for his son the frog prince?) - Vodyantsar?
	The Frog Prince (vodyanoy)
	Frog Wizard - Zazmoze
	another bbg (Behemoth)
	also an evil wizard ofc
	a cultist of Uramut who becomes possessed and tries to unleash him
	a fighter/warrior warlord
	a mob boss criminal type
	King Nidhad,
	Blind King
	Wayland the Smith/Volund the Smith
	Egil the Archer (from myth)
	Dietrich Von ___ hero, along with Regin Smith, Heimir, Wittich

	Somnus, Orion, Pax, Tyro, Cogg, Garl, Ike, Uther, Kess, Roach, Mito, Lugh, Muriel
	Eadmer, Godfrey, Einhard, Vixen, Aloy, Eilonwy, Beowin, Rook, Alahad, Galatea, Grin
	Spiridon, Khartoum, Heironymus, Gundahar, Wace, Leofwyn, Drythelm, Hengran, Hardeck
	Harcourt, Aecury, Aelfwyne


	polemarch,commodore,margrave,
	thane,earl,baron,duke,burgess,
	reeve,magistrate,warden,alderman,franklin,manciple,chamberlain,seneschal
	dame,lady,"hostess",courtesan,
	bailiff,steward,sheriff,guard,watchman,usher
	knight,archer,cavalier,squire,page,knave,
	boatman,sailor,pilot,ferryman,shipman,
	messenger,envoy,herald,cryer
	priest,nun,parson,rector,prior,chaplain,vicar,monk,abbott,bishop,friar,deacon
	librarian,scribe/scrivener,historian,clerk,cartographer,
	playwright,painter,poet,sculptor
	bard,trumpeteer,fiddler,flautist,lyrist,puppeteer,jester,dancer
	wizards,witches,warlocks,druid,shaman
	apothecary,alchemist,herbalist,dyer,potion seller
	doctor,midwife,surgeon,barber
	undertaker,groundskeeper
	baker,butcher,miller,brewer,vintner,cheesemonger,spiceman,milkmaid
	merchant,trader,peddler,salesmen,jeweler
	blacksmith,brownsmith,whitesmith,goldsmith,silversmith,locksmith,gunsmith,puddler
	carpenter,mason,glassmaker,wainwright,sawyer
	cooper,potter,chandler,fletcher,bowyer,luthier
	fuller,tanner,tailor,weaver,seamstress,cobbler,hatter,parchminer
	fisherman,huntsman,woodsman
	beekeeper,aviarist,falconist,ratcatcher,
	rancher,stablekeeper,cowboy,shepherd,ostler
	farmer,gardener,sweeper,yeoman
	innkeeper,tavernkeeper
	traveler,pilgrim,
	ragpicker/junkman,confectioner,collier



CREATURE IDEAS:
yellow python -- red python -- brown python -- white python -- black python -- giant python -- aeormungand
sirens
nagas
basilisks
stoats
lemmings
stork babies
messenger demons
biblically accurate angels
Troll?
the questing beast - Glatisant (giraffe)
argentavis (big bird)
mermaid (captive?)
fey - a class of intelligent creatures
goblins - intelligent small green bipedal creatures
orcs - disturbing creatures that resemble large mutant humans
dragons - large majestic serpentine winged creatrues
Vodyanoys and Vodyantsar (where the 'kappa horn' item would be) ("The Hasterman")
slime skeletons
slime armor monster
snark
wumpus
albatross
muskrat
bellbird
horses: palfrey, destier, "bony nag", bay horse, palomino
dormouse (known for sleep)



THIRTEEN GODS WITH TEMPLES:

Arunius - God of intelligence, moon, brotherhood, magic, writing, truth, and law
The King of the Gods, gave writing to humans, appears as a bearded older man. Gives the blessing of sagacity.

Brym - God of strength, storms, war, fighting, victory
Fought and defeated Ixis the Dragoness, represented by lightning. Appears as a severe bald man in armor. Gives the blessing of brawniness.

Istur - God of skill, rain, rivers, crafting, art, discipline
Appears as a long-haired man in robes with tools or a brush. Gives the blessing of prowess.

Saqul - God of luck, the sea, money, alcohol, humor
Appears as a hairy man with a long beard. Gives the blessing of prosperity. Has a pet goose.

Haeron - God of speed, the sky, wind, messages, flight, loyalty
Is the loyal servant of Arunius. Appears as a man with wings or a cape and curly hair. Gives the blessing of swiftness.

Rook - God of death, winter, plagues
The ruler of the underworld. Oftentimes appears as a man with no eyes and skeletal hands. Represented by a murder of crows.

Veia - Goddess of charisma, sun, love, magic, music
The Queen of the Gods, gave music to humans. Appears as a golden older women with a bright crown. Gives the blessing of felicity.

Caillef - Goddess of stamina, beasts, summer, freedom
A woman with antlers and a tail. She plays the flute. Sometimes appears as a huntress. Gives the blessing of liveliness. Symbolized by a squirrel.

Astrathe - Goddess of wisdom, stars, prophecy, fate, time
An older woman in long starry robes and a tall hat and a third eye. Gives the blessing of lucidity.

Zet - Goddess of faith, harvest, peace, protection, fertility, earth
Symbolized by a blue rose. Usually appears as a woman in a white robe with a blue halo. Sometimes shown pregnant or with babies. Gives the blessing of fidelity.

Selanna - Goddess of constitution, plants, healing, patience, mercy
A woman with a flower garland and very long light hair. Sometimes shown covered in vines. Gives the blessing of toughness.

Ixis - Goddess of fire, rebirth, dragons, chaos
Rebelled and lost to Brym. Often appears as a large red Dragoness. Gives a random buff from {flying, fireproof, blazing, total heal}

Uramut - Deity of the unknown, secrets, darkness
Symbolized by a yellow eye. Shown as a shadowy creature or a tentacle beast.

https://www.ancient.eu/article/885/egyptian-gods---the-complete-list/
https://en.vikidia.org/wiki/List_of_Norse_gods_and_goddesses



each of the gods appear in the world in a unique form, such as:
a cat
a giant wolf
a giant serpent/python
a poor old man
a (devilish?) queen
a talking weapon
a whirlwind
the same as the beholder (the player)
a giant/cyclops
a hooded wanderer
a swarm of birds (or something else?)
a dragon?
a rock/mountain?
a tree?
a shadow (maybe tentacles?)
a wisp/fairy?
a goose?
a flower?



GOLDEN BUG QUEST:
50 golden bugs that can be found around the world
Spider (golden orb weaver?), Termite, Cocoon, Scorpion, Butterfly,
Roach, Horsefly, Hornet, Ant, Mantis,
Cricket, Dragonfly, Stinkbug, Earwig, Flea,
Stickbug, Mosquito, Silkworm, Firefly, Silverfish,
Locust, Cicada, Mayfly, Moth, Bumblebee,
Aphid, Louse, Weevil, Lady Beetle, Tiger Beetle,
Pillbug, Bedbug, Mealybug, Scarab Beetle, Tick,
Snail, Earthworm, Slug, Seaslug, Glowworm,
Centipede, Millipede, Leafhopper, Lovebug, Lacbug,
Goblinmite, Brainworm, Orc Beetle, Mimicbug, Waterbear



SPELL NAME IDEAS:
Abjure, Aliment, Amphibify, Anathema, Armistice, Aspersion, Asterism, Ataxia, Avulsion
Bamboozle, Bang, Banish, Banquet, Beacon, Bellow, Bolster, Boogaloo, Boom, Busk
Cacophony, Catharsis, Celeritas, Chutzpah, Clemency, Cloudburst, Collapse, Conjure
Delirium, Deluge, Dessicate, Discord
Effervesce, Eidolon, Enchant, Ennervation, Enthrall, Expectorate, Expell
Facade, Facsimile, Feast, Festoon, Fib, Fireball, Fizz, Flare, Frostbite
Galvanize, Gambit, Glower, Goad, Gorgonize, Gravitas
Halo, Harmony, Haste, Haunt, Hayfever Hex, Hypnosis
Immolate, Invigorate, Invisibility, Iridescence
Jackpot, Jamboree, Jargon, Jeopardy, Judgement
Lampoon, Lash, Lethargy, Levitate, Lignify, Limerence, Lure
Maelstrom, Malaise, Manumit, Melancholy, Micturate, Miracle (random effect), Mirage, Moonshot
Nyctophobia
Parley, Paroxysm, Parry, Penumbra, Petrify, Phantasm, Pilfer, Ponder, Prescience, Psychosis, Putrefaction
Refection, Rend, Repast, Resurrect, Revelry, Riposte, Ruin
Sanctuary, Sequester, Scintillate, Scry, Serein, Shivaree, Simper, Simulacrum, Smite, Smithereens, Spangle, Squib, Sunder, Sunshower, Synapse
Telekinesis, Tempest, Tether, Torrent
Usurp
Vamoose, Vendetta, Veritas, Volley
Wallop, Weal, Wode, Woe
Zeitgeist, Zephyr


okay rooms to include in new world for testing:
- a goblin with some weapons/items on it
- a key/locked chest
- chest within a chest
- wall that can be climbed or flown past
- amulet that spawns something
- amulet that adds condition
- several potions of varying colors
- sign to read
- item with capital letter naming
- bell to ring

- a room with magic items/wand?
- what about the pit?
- magic thing that reacts when you look on/through it
- fish in the pond
- fountain to take water from
- seed to plant and water
- mound to dig up
- something to light
- dog to pet?
- statue to pray at
- something to tie/untie
- something to write with?

- NPCs to talk to
- something to mount/ride
- something to craft/cook


DIALOGUE IDEAS:

- make people surprised when you are naked
- make people mention if you have the same name
- people run from you if their fear is maxed out
- some people will want you to put away your weapon(s)

- some people will give you stuff
- some people will ask you to do something for them
- some people will say tales and tidbits
- some will ask you to give them stuff

- TALK TO ANIMALS:
	- there will be a spell to talk to animal (maybe called beastspeak)
	- octopi will speak to you in an undecipherable text (maybe jumbled letters or other symbols)
	- horses will be bold cowboy-like talk
	- goats will be rude
	- sheep may be all similar
	- cows will be apathetic
	- pigs will be italian or mafiosos? they are smart
	- chickens will crack chicken jokes and dad jokes
	- dogs and cats will be helpful. Dogs will say positive things. cats will give you human gossip
	- there will be a zoo with some animals
	- not sure about deer, squirrels, rats
	- wolves, lions, and bears will be austere but intelligent. they will want to trade
	- birds will only speak in performative language; songs, poems (maybe lore/hints), jokes. maybe eagles will say haikus
	- reptiles will use cryptic speech with old grammar and simple ideas
	- fish will say glub glub or say simple words
	- bugs will just make weird sounds